# YCSBR: Your Customizable Synthetic Benchmark Runner
This repository contains utilities that help with running and generating
synthetic key value store benchmark workloads. This workload runner and
generator only supports 64-bit unsigned integer keys.

## Compilation and Usage
This project is configured with CMake and is intended to be used as a
subproject within a CMake project. You can either (i) include this repository
as a submodule, or (ii) use CMake's `FetchContent` or `ExternalProject`
modules to checkout this repository during configuration/compilation.

### Workload Runner
To use the key value workload runner library in your code, link to the
`ycsbr` CMake target.
```cmake
target_link_libraries(your_target ycsbr)
```

In your source code, you only need to include the `ycsbr/ycsbr.h` header.
```cpp
#include "ycsbr/ycsbr.h"
```
The public library methods and classes can be found under `include/ycsbr` and
are documented. Note that the workload runner is a header-only library.

### Workload Generator
To use the key value workload generator, link to the `ycsbr-gen` CMake target.
```cmake
target_link_libraries(your_target ycsbr-gen)
```

In your source code, you only need to include the `ycsbr/gen.h` header.
```cpp
#include "ycsbr/gen.h"
```
The public library methods and classes can be found under `include/ycsbr` and
are documented.

The workload generator library includes *everything* in the workload runner.
So if you want to use the generator, you do not also need to separately link
to the runner as well. Note that the workload generator library is not a
header-only library. It also depends on the
[`yaml-cpp`](https://github.com/jbeder/yaml-cpp) library.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Database Interface
YCSBR interacts with the database being benchmarked through a
`DatabaseInterface` class. You need to define one of these classes for each
database you plan to benchmark. See `ycsbr/db_example.h` for an example class.

## Running Benchmark Workloads
There are two ways to run benchmark workloads against a `DatabaseInterface`.
The single trace replay functions and the `Session` methods.

### Single Benchmark
To run a single trace, you can use the `ReplayTrace<DatabaseInterface>()`
functions. See `ycsbr/benchmark.h` for more documentation. These functions
only allow you to run a single trace and have limited customizability.

### Session-Based Benchmarking
For more fine-grained control over the benchmarking setup, you can use a
benchmark `Session`. See `ycsbr/session.h` for more documentation.

### Custom Workloads
YCSBR also supports custom key-value workloads. To define a custom workload,
implement classes with the same methods as shown in
`ycsbr/workload_example.h`. To run the workload, you need to use
`Session`-based benchmarking (you will need to call
`Session::RunWorkload()`). Note that you do not need the workload generator
to run a custom user-defined workload.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Workload Generator
To run a workload generated by the YCSBR workload generator, you need to
define a workload configuration file. For an example of the configuration
options available, see `tests/workloads/custom.yml`.

To run a workload defined by one of these configuration files, you need to
first load it using `gen::PhasedWorkload::LoadFrom()`. Then you can call
`Session::RunWorkload()` to actually run the workload.

Note that to use the workload generator, you need to link to `ycsbr-gen`. In
your code, you should include the `ycsbr/gen.h` header.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## YCSB Workload Extractor
This project contains a tool that extracts a YCSB workload and serializes it
as a file that can then be loaded by the workload runner library. To build
the tool, you need to set the `YR_BUILD_EXTRACTOR` option when configuring
the project.

```bash
mkdir build && cd build
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DYR_BUILD_EXTRACTOR=ON ..
make
```

After building, you will find the `ycsbextractor` executable. The extractor
tool works by processing the official YCSB benchmark driver's output when
using the `basic` "database". It accepts the benchmark driver's output on
standard in and writes to a file that you specify when launching the program.

### Extraction Examples

**Load 1 million records**
```bash
ycsb load basic -P workloads/workloada \
  -p recordcount=1000000 \
  | ./build/ycsbextractor ycsb-a-load-1M
```

**Workload A, 1 million record database size, 100k operations**
```bash
ycsb run basic -P workloads/workloada \
  -p recordcount=1000000 \
  -p operationcount=100000 \
  | ./build/ycsbextractor ycsb-a-run-1M-100k
```

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Running Tests and Microbenchmarks
To build the YCSBR tests and microbenchmarks, you need to set the
`YR_BUILD_TESTS` option when configuring this project. Note that you need to
also build the extractor if you want to build the tests.

```bash
cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DYR_BUILD_TESTS=ON -DYR_BUILD_EXTRACTOR=ON ..
```

Then, after compiling, run `./tests/test_runner` inside the build directory.
You can run the microbenchmarks by running `./tests/benchmark_runner`.

The benchmark runner adds an overhead of ~20 nanoseconds to each request. If
the benchmark runner is running a workload from the workload generator, the
overhead is currently ~80 nanoseconds per request. This overhead will be part
of the workload throughput measurement, but will *not* be part of the latency
measurements.
